[House Document 110-50]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



110th Congress                                               Document

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
1st Session                                                No. 110-50

 
                                   THE
                              CONSTITUTION
                                 OF THE
                              UNITED STATES
                               OF AMERICA

                               As Amended

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          Unratified Amendments

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            Analytical Index




                         PRESENTED BY MR. BRADY

                             OF PENNSYLVANIA

               July 25, 2007        Ordered to be printed

                              UNITED STATES
                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
                            WASHINGTON: 2007



For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing 
Office Internet: bookstore.gpo.gov  Phone: toll free (866) 512-1800;  DC 
area (202) 512-1800 Fax: (202) 512-2104  Mail: Stop IDCC, Washington, DC 
20402-001
                       [ISBN 978-0-16-079091-1]
      
House Doc. 110-50

    The printing of the revised version of The Constitution of 
the United States of America As Amended (Document Size) is 
hereby ordered pursuant to H. Con. Res. 190 as passed on July 
25, 2007, 110th Congress, 1st Session. This document was 
compiled at the direction of Chairman Robert A. Brady of the 
Joint Committee on Printing, and printed by the U.S. Government 
Printing Office.
                                CONTENTS

Historical Note..................................................     v
Text of the Constitution.........................................     1
Amendments.......................................................    13
Proposed Amendments Not Ratified.................................    29
Index to the Constitution and Amendments.........................    33








                            HISTORICAL NOTE

                              ----------                              


    The Delegates who convened at the Federal Convention on May 
25, 1787, quickly rejected the idea of revising the Articles of 
Confederation and agreed to construct a new framework for a 
national government. Throughout the summer months at the 
Convention in Philadelphia, delegates from 12 States debated 
the proper form such a government should take, but few 
questioned the need to establish a more vigorous government to 
preside over the union of States. The 39 delegates who signed 
the Constitution on September 17, 1787, expected the new 
charter to provide a permanent guarantee of the political 
liberties achieved in the Revolution.
    Prior to the adoption of the Federal Constitution, the 
Articles of Confederation, drafted by the Continental Congress 
and approved by 13 States, provided for a union of the former 
British colonies. Even before Maryland became the last State to 
accede to the Articles in 1781, a number of Americans, 
particularly those involved in the prosecution of the 
Revolutionary War, recognized the inadequacies of the Articles 
as a national government. In the 1780s these nationally-minded 
Americans became increasingly disturbed by the Articles' 
failure to provide the central government with authority to 
raise revenue, regulate commerce, or enforce treaties.
    Despite repeated proposals that the Continental Congress 
revise the Articles, the movement for a new national government 
began outside the Congress. Representatives of Maryland and 
Virginia, meeting at Mt. Vernon to discuss trade problems 
between the two States, agreed to invite delegates from all 
States to discuss commercial affairs at a meeting in Annapolis, 
Maryland, in September 1786. Although delegates from only five 
States reached the Annapolis Convention, that group issued a 
call for a meeting of all States to discuss necessary revisions 
of the Articles of Confederation. Responding to this call and 
the endorsement of the Continental Congress, every State except 
Rhode Island selected delegates for the meeting in the State 
House at Philadelphia.
    The document printed here was the product of nearly four 
months of deliberations in the Federal Convention at 
Philadelphia. The challenging task before the delegates was to 
create a republican form of government that could encompass the 
13 States and accommodate the anticipated expansion to the 
West. The distribution of authority between legislative, 
executive, and judicial branches was a boldly original attempt 
to create an energetic central government at the same time that 
the sovereignty of the people was preserved.
    The longest debate of the Convention centered on the proper 
form of representation and election for the Congress. The 
division between small States that wished to perpetuate the 
equal representation of States in the Continental Congress and 
the large States that proposed representation proportional to 
population threatened to bring the Convention proceedings to a 
halt. Over several weeks the delegates developed a complicated 
compromise that provided for equal representation of the States 
in a Senate elected by State legislature and proportional 
representation in a popularly-elected House of Representatives.
    The conflict between large and small States disappeared in 
the early years of the republic. More lasting was the division 
between slave and free States that had been a disturbing 
undercurrent in the Convention debates. The Convention's 
strained attempt to avoid using the word slavery in the 
articles granting recognition and protection to that 
institution scarcely hid the regional divisions that would 
remain unresolved under the terms of union agreed to in 1787.
    The debates in the State ratification conventions of 1787 
and 1788 made clear the need to provide amendments to the basic 
framework drafted in Philadelphia. Beginning with 
Massachusetts, a number of State conventions ratified the 
Constitution with the request that a bill of rights be added to 
protect certain liberties at the core of English and American 
political traditions. The First Congress approved a set of 
amendments which became the Bill of Rights when ratified by the 
States in 1791. The continuing process of amendment, clearly 
described in the note of the following text, has enabled the 
Constitution to accommodate changing conditions in American 
society at the same time that the Founders' basic outline of 
national government remains intact.
                  CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES\1\

                              ----------                              


We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect 
        Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide 
        for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure 
        the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do 
        ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of 
        America.

                               Article I.

    Section 1. All legislative Powers herein granted shall be 
vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist 
of a Senate and House of Representatives.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *                              
\1\This text of the Constitution follows the engrossed copy signed by 
Gen. Washington and the deputies from 12 States. The small superior 
figures preceding the paragraphs designate clauses, and were not in the 
original and have no reference to footnotes.
                                   * * * * *                              
The Constitution was adopted by a convention of the States on September 
17, 1787, and was subsequently ratified by the several States, on the 
following dates: Delaware, December 7, 1787; Pennsylvania, December 12, 
1787; New Jersey, December 18, 1787; Georgia, January 2, 1788; 
Connecticut, January 9, 1788; Massachusetts, February 6, 1788; 
Maryland, April 28, 1788; South Carolina, May 23, 1788; New Hampshire, 
June 21, 1788.
                                   * * * * *                              
Ratification was completed on June 21, 1788.
                                   * * * * *                              
The Constitution was subsequently ratified by Virginia, June 25, 1788; 
New York, July 26, 1788; North Carolina, November 21, 1789; Rhode 
Island, May 29, 1790; and Vermont, January 10, 1791.
                                   * * * * *                              
In May 1785, a committee of Congress made a report recommending an 
alteration in the Articles of Confederation, but no action was taken on 
it, and it was left to the State Legislatures to proceed in the matter. 
In January 1786, the Legislature of Virginia passed a resolution 
providing for the appointment of five commissioners, who, or any three 
of them, should meet such commissioners as might be appointed in the 
other States of the Union, at a time and place to be agreed upon, to 
take into consideration the trade of the United States; to consider how 
far a uniform system in their commercial regulations may be necessary 
to their common interest and their permanent harmony; and to report to 
the several States such an act, relative to this great object, as, when 
ratified by them, will enable the United States in Congress effectually 
to provide for the same. The Virginia commissioners, after some 
correspondence, fixed the first Monday in September as the time, and 
the city of Annapolis as the place for the meeting, but only four other 
States were represented, viz: Delaware, New York, New Jersey, and 
Pennsylvania; the commissioners appointed by Massachusetts, New 
Hampshire, North Carolina, and Rhode Island failed to attend. Under the 
circumstances of so partial a representation, the commissioners present 
agreed upon a report (drawn by Mr. Hamilton, of New York) expressing 
their unanimous conviction that it might essentially tend to advance 
the interests of the Union if the States by which they were 
respectively delegated would concur, and use their endeavors to procure 
the concurrence of the other States, in the appointment of 
commissioners to meet at Philadelphia on the second Monday of May 
following, to take into consideration the situation of the United 
States; to devise such further provisions as should appear to them 
necessary to render the Constitution of the Federal Government adequate 
to the exigencies of the Union; and to report such an act for that 
purpose to the United States in Congress assembled as, when agreed to 
by them and afterwards confirmed by the Legislatures of every State, 
would effectually provide for the same.
                                   * * * * *                              
Congress, on the 21st of February, 1787, adopted a resolution in favor 
of a convention, and the Legislatures of those States which had not 
already done so (with the exception of Rhode Island) promptly appointed 
delegates. On the 25th of May, seven States having convened, George 
Washington, of Virginia, was unanimously elected President, and the 
consideration of the proposed constitution was commenced. On the 17th 
of September, 1787, the Constitution as engrossed and agreed upon was 
signed by all the members present, except Mr. Gerry of Massachusetts, 
and Messrs. Mason and Randolph, of Virginia. The president of the 
convention transmitted it to Congress, with a resolution stating how 
the proposed Federal Government should be put in operation, and an 
explanatory letter. Congress, on the 28th of September, 1787, directed 
the Constitution so framed, with the resolutions and letter concerning 
the same, to ``be transmitted to the several Legislatures in order to 
be submitted to a convention of delegates chosen in each State by the 
people thereof, in conformity to the resolves of the convention.''
                                   * * * * *                              
On the 4th of March, 1789, the day which had been fixed for commencing 
the operations of Government under the new Constitution, it had been 
ratified by the conventions chosen in each State to consider it, as 
follows: Delaware, December 7, 1787; Pennsylvania, December 12, 1787; 
New Jersey, December 18, 1787; Georgia, January 2, 1788; Connecticut, 
January 9, 1788; Massachusetts, February 6, 1788; Maryland, April 28, 
1788; South Carolina, May 23, 1788; New Hampshire, June 21, 1788; 
Virginia, June 25, 1788; and New York, July 26, 1788.
                                   * * * * *                              
The President informed Congress, on the 28th of January, 1790, that 
North Carolina had ratified the Constitution November 21, 1789; and he 
informed Congress on the 1st of June, 1790, that Rhode Island had 
ratified the Constitution May 29, 1790. Vermont, in convention, 
ratified the Constitution January 10, 1791, and was, by an act of 
Congress approved February 18, 1791, ``received and admitted into this 
Union as a new and entire member of the United States.''
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Section 2. \1\The House of Representatives shall be 
composed of Members chosen every second Year by the People of 
the several States, and the Electors in each State shall have 
the Qualifications requisite for Electors of the most numerous 
Branch of the State Legislature.
    \2\No Person shall be a Representative who shall not have 
attained to the Age of twenty five Years, and been seven Years 
a Citizen of the United States, and who shall not, when 
elected, be an Inhabitant of that State in which he shall be 
chosen.
    \3\Representatives and direct Taxes shall be apportioned 
among the several States which may be included within this 
Union, according to their respective Numbers, which shall be 
determined by adding to the whole Number of free Persons, 
including those bound to Service for a Term of Years, and 
excluding Indians not taxed, three fifths of all other 
Persons.\2\ The actual Enumeration shall be made within three 
Years after the first Meeting of the Congress of the United 
States, and within every subsequent Term of ten Years, in such 
Manner as they shall by Law direct. The Number of 
Representatives shall not exceed one for every thirty Thousand, 
but each State shall have at Least one Representative; and 
until such enumeration shall be made, the State of New 
Hampshire shall be entitled to chuse three, Massachusetts 
eight, Rhode Island and Providence Plantations one, Connecticut 
five, New York six, New Jersey four, Pennsylvania eight, 
Delaware one, Maryland six, Virginia ten, North Carolina five, 
South Carolina five, and Georgia three.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *                              
\2\The part of this clause relating to the mode of apportionment of 
representatives among the several States has been affected by section 2 
of amendment XIV, and as to taxes on incomes without apportionment by 
amendment XVI.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \4\When vacancies happen in the Representation from any 
State, the Executive Authority thereof shall issue Writs of 
Election to fill such Vacancies.
    \5\The House of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker 
and other Officers; and shall have the sole Power of 
Impeachment.
    Section 3. \1\The Senate of the United States shall be 
composed of two Senators from each State, chosen by the 
Legislature thereof\3\ for six Years; and each Senator shall 
have one Vote.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *                              
\3\This clause has been affected by clause 1 of amendment XVII.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \2\Immediately after they shall be assembled in Consequence 
of the first Election, they shall be divided as equally as may 
be into three Classes. The Seats of the Senators of the first 
Class shall be vacated at the Expiration of the second Year, of 
the second Class at the Expiration of the fourth Year, and of 
the third Class at the Expiration of the sixth Year, so that 
one third may be chosen every second Year; and if Vacancies 
happen by Resignation or otherwise, during the Recess of the 
Legislature of any State, the Executive thereof may make 
temporary Appointments until the next Meeting of the 
Legislature, which shall then fill such Vacancies.\4\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *                              
\4\This clause has been affected by clause 2 of amendment XVIII.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \3\No Person shall be a Senator who shall not have attained 
to the Age of thirty Years, and been nine Years a Citizen of 
the United States, and who shall not, when elected, be an 
Inhabitant of that State for which he shall be chosen.
    \4\The Vice President of the United States shall be 
President of the Senate, but shall have no Vote, unless they be 
equally divided.
    \5\The Senate shall chuse their other Officers, and also a 
President pro tempore, in the Absence of the Vice President, or 
when he shall exercise the Office of President of the United 
States.
    \6\The Senate shall have the sole Power to try all 
Impeachments. When sitting for that Purpose, they shall be on 
Oath or Affirmation. When the President of the United States is 
tried, the Chief Justice shall preside: And no Person shall be 
convicted without the Concurrence of two thirds of the Members 
present.
    \7\Judgment in Cases of Impeachment shall not extend 
further than to removal from Office, and disqualification to 
hold and enjoy any Office of honor, Trust or Profit under the 
United States: but the Party convicted shall nevertheless be 
liable and subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgment and 
Punishment, according to Law.
    Section 4. \1\The Times, Places and Manner of holding 
Elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed 
in each State by the Legislature thereof; but the Congress may 
at any time by Law make or alter such Regulations, except as to 
the Places of chusing Senators.
    \2\The Congress shall assemble at least once in every Year 
and such Meeting shall be on the first Monday in December,\5\ 
unless they shall by Law appoint a different Day.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *                              
\5\This clause has been affected by amendment XX.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Section 5. \1\Each House shall be the Judge of the 
Elections, Returns and Qualifications of its own Members, and a 
Majority of each shall constitute a Quorum to do Business; but 
a smaller Number may adjourn from day to day, and may be 
authorized to compel the Attendance of absent Members, in such 
Manner, and under such Penalties as each House may provide.
    \2\Each House may determine the Rules of its Proceedings, 
punish its Members for disorderly Behavior, and, with the 
Concurrence of two thirds, expel a Member.
    \3\Each House shall keep a Journal of its Proceedings, and 
from time to time publish the same, excepting such Parts as may 
in their Judgment require Secrecy; and the Yeas and Nays of the 
Members of either House on any question shall, at the Desire of 
one fifth of those Present, be entered on the Journal.
    \4\Neither House, during the Session of Congress, shall, 
without the Consent of the other, adjourn for more than three 
days, nor to any other Place than that in which the two Houses 
shall be sitting.
    Section 6. \1\The Senators and Representatives shall 
receive a Compensation for their Services, to be ascertained by 
Law, and paid out of the Treasury of the United States.\6\ They 
shall in all Cases, except Treason, Felony and Breach of the 
Peace, be privileged from Arrest during their Attendance at the 
Session of their respective Houses, and in going to and 
returning from the same; and for any Speech or Debate in either 
House, they shall not be questioned in any other Place.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *                              
\6\This clause has been affected by amendment XXVII.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \2\No Senator or Representative shall, during the Time for 
which he was elected, be appointed to any civil Office under 
the Authority of the United States, which shall have been 
created, or the Emoluments whereof shall have been encreased 
during such time; and no Person holding any Office under the 
United States, shall be a Member of either House during his 
Continuance in Office.
    Section 7. \1\All Bills for raising Revenue shall originate 
in the House of Representatives; but the Senate may propose or 
concur with Amendments as on other Bills.
    \2\Every Bill which shall have passed the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it become a Law, 
be presented to the President of the United States; If he 
approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it, with 
his Objections to that House in which it shall have originated, 
who shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal, and 
proceed to reconsider it. If after such Reconsideration two 
thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill, it shall be 
sent, together with the Objections, to the other House, by 
which it shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two 
thirds of that House, it shall become a Law. But in all such 
Cases the Votes of both Houses shall be determined by Yeas and 
Nays, and the Names of the Persons voting for and against the 
Bill shall be entered on the Journal of each House 
respectively. If any Bill shall not be returned by the 
President within ten Days (Sundays excepted) after it shall 
have been presented to him, the Same shall be a Law, in like 
Manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress by their 
Adjournment prevent its Return, in which Case it shall not be a 
Law.
    \3\Every Order, Resolution, or Vote to which the 
Concurrence of the Senate and House of Representatives may be 
necessary (except on a question of Adjournment) shall be 
presented to the President of the United States; and before the 
Same shall take Effect, shall be approved by him, or being 
disapproved by him, shall be repassed by two thirds of the 
Senate and House of Representatives, according to the Rules and 
Limitations prescribed in the Case of a Bill.
    Section 8. \1\The Congress shall have Power To lay and 
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts 
and provide for the common Defence and general Welfare of the 
United States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be 
uniform throughout the United States;
    \2\To borrow Money on the credit of the United States;
    \3\To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the 
several States, and with the Indian Tribes;
    \4\To establish a uniform Rule of Naturalization, and 
uniform Laws on the subject of Bankruptcies throughout the 
United States;
    \5\To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of 
foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of Weights and Measures;
    \6\To provide for the Punishment of counterfeiting the 
Securities and current Coin of the United States;
    \7\To establish Post Offices and post Roads;
    \8\To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by 
securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the 
exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries;
    \9\To constitute Tribunals inferior to the supreme Court;
    \10\To define and punish Piracies and Felonies committed on 
the high Seas, and Offences against the Law of Nations;
    \11\To declare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal, 
and make Rules concerning Captures on Land and Water;
    \12\To raise and support Armies, but no Appropriation of 
Money to that Use shall be for a longer Term than two Years;
    \13\To provide and maintain a Navy;
    \14\To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the 
land and naval Forces;
    \15\To provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the 
Laws of the Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions;
    \16\To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining, 
the Militia, and for governing such Part of them as may be 
employed in the Service of the United States, reserving to the 
States respectively, the Appointment of the Officers, and the 
Authority of training the Militia according to the discipline 
prescribed by Congress;
    \17\To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases 
whatsoever, over such District (not exceeding ten Miles square) 
as may, by Cession of particular States, and the Acceptance of 
Congress, become the Seat of the Government of the United 
States, and to exercise like Authority over all Places 
purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the State in 
which the Same shall be, for the Erection of Forts, Magazines, 
Arsenals, dock-Yards, and other needful buildings;--And
    \18\To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper 
for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other 
Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the 
United States, or in any Department or Officer thereof.
    Section 9. \1\The Migration or Importation of such Persons 
as any of the States now existing shall think proper to admit, 
shall not be prohibited by the Congress prior to the Year one 
thousand eight hundred and eight, but a Tax or duty may be 
imposed on such Importation, not exceeding ten dollars for each 
Person.
    \2\The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be 
suspended, unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the 
public Safety may require it.
    \3\No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be 
passed.
    \4\No Capitation, or other direct, Tax shall be laid, 
unless in Proportion to the Census or Enumeration herein before 
directed to be taken.\7\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *                              
\7\This clause has been affected by amendment XVI.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \5\No Tax or Duty shall be laid on Articles exported from 
any State.
    \6\No Preference shall be given by any Regulation of 
Commerce or Revenue to the Ports of one State over those of 
another: nor shall Vessels bound to, or from, one State, be 
obliged to enter, clear, or pay Duties in another.
    \7\No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in 
Consequence of Appropriations made by Law; and a regular 
Statement and Account of the Receipts and Expenditures of all 
public Money shall be published from time to time.
    \8\No Title of Nobility shall be granted by the United 
States: And no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust 
under them, shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept 
of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind 
whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.
    Section 10. \1\No State shall enter into any Treaty, 
Alliance, or Confederation; grant Letters of Marque and 
Reprisal; coin Money; emit Bills of Credit; make any Thing but 
gold and silver Coin a Tender in Payment of Debts; pass any 
Bill of Attainder, ex post facto Law, or Law impairing the 
Obligation of Contracts, or grant any Title of Nobility.
    \2\No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay 
any Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports, except what may be 
absolutely necessary for executing its inspection Laws: and the 
net Produce of all Duties and Imposts, laid by any State on 
Imports or Exports, shall be for the Use of the Treasury of the 
United States; and all such Laws shall be subject to the 
Revision and Control of the Congress.
    \3\No State shall, without the Consent of Congress, lay any 
Duty of Tonnage, keep Troops, or Ships of War in time of Peace, 
enter into any Agreement or Compact with another State, or with 
a foreign Power, or engage in War, unless actually invaded, or 
in such imminent Danger as will not admit of delay.

                              Article II.

    Section 1. \1\The executive Power shall be vested in a 
President of the United States of America. He shall hold his 
Office during the Term of four Years, and, together with the 
Vice President, chosen for the same Term, be elected, as 
follows
    \2\Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the 
Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors, equal to 
the whole Number of Senators and Representatives to which the 
State may be entitled in the Congress: but no Senator or 
Representative, or Person holding an Office of Trust or Profit 
under the United States, shall be appointed an Elector.
    \3\The Electors shall meet in their respective States, and 
vote by Ballot for two Persons, of whom one at least shall not 
be an Inhabitant of the same State with themselves. And they 
shall make a List of all the Persons voted for, and of the 
Number of Votes for each; which List they shall sign and 
certify, and transmit sealed to the Seat of the Government of 
the United States, directed to the President of the Senate. The 
President of the Senate shall, in the Presence of the Senate 
and House of Representatives, open all the Certificates, and 
the Votes shall then be counted. The Person having the greatest 
Number of Votes shall be the President, if such Number be a 
Majority of the whole Number of Electors appointed; and if 
there be more than one who have such Majority, and have an 
equal Number of Votes, then the House of Representatives shall 
immediately chuse by Ballot one of them for President; and if 
no Person have a Majority, then from the five highest on the 
List the said House shall in like Manner chuse the President. 
But in chusing the President, the Votes shall be taken by 
States, the Representation from each State having one Vote; A 
quorum for this Purpose shall consist of a Member or Members 
from two thirds of the States, and a Majority of all the States 
shall be necessary to a Choice. In every Case, after the Choice 
of the President, the Person having the greatest Number of 
Votes of the Electors shall be the Vice President. But if there 
should remain two or more who have equal Votes, the Senate 
shall chuse from them by Ballot the Vice President.\8\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *                              
\8\This clause has been superseded by amendment XII.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \4\The Congress may determine the Time of chusing the 
Electors, and the Day on which they shall give their Votes; 
which Day shall be the same throughout the United States.
    \5\No Person except a natural born Citizen, or a Citizen of 
the United States, at the time of the Adoption of this 
Constitution, shall be eligible to the Office of President; 
neither shall any Person be eligible to that Office who shall 
not have attained to the Age of thirty five Years, and been 
fourteen Years a Resident within the United States.
    \6\In Case of the Removal of the President from Office, or 
of his Death, Resignation, or Inability to discharge the Powers 
and Duties of the said Office,\9\ the Same shall devolve on the 
Vice President, and the Congress may by Law provide for the 
Case of Removal, Death, Resignation or Inability, both of the 
President and Vice President, declaring what Officer shall then 
act as President, and such Officer shall act accordingly, until 
the Disability be removed, or a President shall be elected.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *                              
\9\This clause has been affected by amendment XXV.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \7\The President shall, at stated Times, receive for his 
Services, a Compensation, which shall neither be encreased nor 
diminished during the Period for which he shall have been 
elected, and he shall not receive within that Period any other 
Emolument from the United States, or any of them.
    \8\Before he enter on the Execution of his Office, he shall 
take the following Oath or Affirmation:--``I do solemnly swear 
(or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the Office of 
President of the United States, and will to the best of my 
Ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the 
United States.''
    Section 2. \1\The President shall be Commander in Chief of 
the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of 
the several States, when called into the actual Service of the 
United States; he may require the Opinion, in writing, of the 
principal Officer in each of the executive Departments, upon 
any Subject relating to the Duties of their respective Offices, 
and he shall have Power to grant Reprieves and Pardons for 
Offences against the United States, except in Cases of 
Impeachment.
    \2\He shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent 
of the Senate, to make Treaties, provided two thirds of the 
Senators present concur; and he shall nominate, and by and with 
the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint 
Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, Judges of the 
supreme Court, and all other Officers of the United States, 
whose Appointments are not herein otherwise provided for, and 
which shall be established by Law: but the Congress may by Law 
vest the Appointment of such inferior Officers, as they think 
proper, in the President alone, in the Courts of Law, or in the 
Heads of Departments.
    \3\The President shall have Power to fill up all Vacancies 
that may happen during the Recess of the Senate, by granting 
Commissions which shall expire at the End of their next 
Session.
    Section 3. He shall from time to time give to the Congress 
Information of the State of the Union, and recommend to their 
Consideration such Measures as he shall judge necessary and 
expedient; he may, on extraordinary Occasions, convene both 
Houses, or either of them, and in Case of Disagreement between 
them, with Respect to the Time of Adjournment, he may adjourn 
them to such Time as he shall think proper; he shall receive 
Ambassadors and other public Ministers; he shall take Care that 
the Laws be faithfully executed, and shall Commission all the 
Officers of the United States.
    Section 4. The President, Vice President and all civil 
Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on 
Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other 
high Crimes and Misdemeanors.

                              Article III.

    Section 1. The judicial Power of the United States, shall 
be vested in one supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as 
the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish. The 
Judges, both of the supreme and inferior Courts, shall hold 
their Offices during good Behaviour, and shall, at stated 
Times, receive for their Services, a Compensation, which shall 
not be diminished during their Continuance in Office.
    Section 2. \1\The judicial Power shall extend to all Cases, 
in Law and Equity, arising under this Constitution, the Laws of 
the United States, and Treaties made, or which shall be made, 
under their Authority;--to all Cases affecting Ambassadors, 
other public Ministers and Consuls;--to all Cases of admiralty 
and maritime Jurisdiction;--to Controversies to which the 
United States will be a party;--to Controversies between two or 
more States;--between a State and Citizens of another 
State;\10\--between Citizens of different States,--between 
Citizens of the same State claiming Lands under Grants of 
different States, and between a State, or the Citizens thereof, 
and foreign States, Citizens or Subjects.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   * * * * *                              
\10\This clause has been affected by amendment XI.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \2\In all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public 
Ministers and Consuls, and those in which a State shall be 
Party, the supreme Court shall have original Jurisdiction. In 
all the other Cases before mentioned, the supreme Court shall 
have appellate Jurisdiction, both as to Law and Fact, with such 
Exceptions, and under such Regulations as the Congress shall 
make.
    \3\The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, 
shall be by Jury; and such Trial shall be held in the State 
where the said Crimes shall have been committed; but when not 
committed within any State, the Trial shall be at such Place or 
Places as the Congress may by Law have directed.
    Section 3. \1\Treason against the United States, shall 
consist only in levying War against them, or in adhering to 
their Enemies, giving them Aid and Comfort. No Person shall be 
convicted of Treason unless on the Testimony of two Witnesses 
to the same overt Act, or on Confession in open Court.
    \2\The Congress shall have Power to declare the Punishment 
of Treason, but no Attainder of Treason shall work Corruption 
of Blood, or Forfeiture except during the Life of the Person 
attainted.